[DOCS] Connect S3 (#11375)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.md

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - define asset" 
   ```

6. Add the Data Asset to your Data Source.

   A new Data Asset is created and added to a Data Source simultaneously. The file format that the Data Asset can read is determined by the method used when the Data Asset is added to the Data Source. To see the file formats supported by an S3 Data Source, refer to the `.add_*_asset(...)` methods in the [PandasFilesystemDatasource reference page](/reference/api/datasource/fluent/PandasFilesystemDatasource_class.mdx).

   The following example creates a Data Asset that can read `.csv` file data:

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - add asset" 
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sample_code" label="Sample code">

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - full code example" 
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Next steps

- [Add an Expectation](/docs/cloud/expectations/manage_expectations) 
- [Run a Validation](/docs/cloud/validations/manage_validations)

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: I didn't see a line about the auto-generated Expectations. That is: We don't automatically apply Anomaly Detection for common data quality issues when an Asset from this data source is created.

Is it intentionally excluded? Why?

Author: Good catch! There's no strong reason that this limitation was omitted. Maybe I thought it was covered as a consequence of the "S3 Data Assets cannot be added through the GX Cloud UI." limitation or maybe it got lost in the shuffle of https://greatexpectations.atlassian.net/browse/GX-1589 and it's impact on limitations being articulated. Either way I'll make some updates to be explicit about this limitation

Keep the following limitations in mind when working with S3 Data Sources.

- S3 Data Source connections cannot be edited in the GX Cloud UI. Use the GX Cloud API if you need to [edit the connection](/cloud/data_sources/manage_data_sources.md#edit-data-source-settings).
- S3 Data Assets cannot be added through the GX Cloud UI. Use the GX Cloud API to [add more Data Assets](/docs/cloud/data_assets/manage_data_assets.md?interface=api#add-a-data-asset-from-an-existing-data-source) from your S3 Data Source.
- ExpectAI is not supported.
- Data Asset metrics are not automatically fetched. You can [manually profile data](/docs/cloud/data_assets/manage_data_assets.md#view-data-asset-metrics) to return all available metrics for an S3 Data Asset.

> - Custom SQL and multi-source Expectations are not supported.

Reviewer: @josectobar Can you confirm custom SQL and Multi-source Expectation are not supported and explain why?

My understanding is custom SQL in the Cloud UI is a wrapper on the [UnexpectedRowsExpectation](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/customize_expectations/use_sql_to_define_a_custom_expectation), which can be defined with python.

Same with [Multi-source Expectation](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/customize_expectations/define_a_multi_source_expectation).

Reviewer 2: Based on my understanding, this is because the PandasExecutionEngine is currently unable to run SQL statements.

Reviewer: Thanks, José!
This is resolved.

---
sidebar_label: 'Connect GX Cloud to Amazon S3'
title: 'Connect GX Cloud to Amazon S3'
description: Add an Amazon S3 Data Source in GX Cloud.
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

To connect GX Cloud to filesystem data stored in Amazon S3, use the GX Cloud API.

## Prerequisites

- A [GX Cloud account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud) with [Workspace Editor permissions](/cloud/access/manage_access.md#roles-and-permissions) or greater.
- AWS credentials with read access to a data file on an S3 bucket.

> - [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) version 3.9 to 3.12.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) version 3.9 to 3.13.
```

- Recommended. A [Python virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

## Install GX Cloud

Run the following terminal command to install the GX Cloud library with support for Amazon S3 dependencies:

```bash title="Terminal input"
pip install 'great_expectations[s3]'
```

## Get your credentials

You'll need your user access token and organization ID to set your environment variables. Don't commit your access token to your version control software.

1. In GX Cloud, click **Tokens**.

2. In the **User access tokens** pane, click **Create user access token**.

3. In the **Token name** field, enter a name for the token that will help you quickly identify it.

4. Click **Create**.

5. Copy and then paste the user access token into a temporary file. The token can't be retrieved after you close the dialog.

6. Click **Close**.

7. Copy the value in the **Organization ID** field into the temporary file with your user access token and then save the file. 

If your organization has [multiple workspaces](/cloud/access/manage_access.md#workspaces), you'll also need your workspace ID.

1. In GX Cloud, select the relevant **Workspace**.

> 2. Observe the URL in your browser and copy the first segment after `/workspaces/`. For example, if the URL is `app.greatexpectations.io/organizations/my-org/workspaces/abc123/data-health`, copy `abc123` into the temporary file with your other credentials and then save the file. 

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the **Workspace ID** pane, find the relevant **Workspace name**, then copy the associated **ID** into the temporary file with your other credentials and save the file. 
```

GX recommends deleting the temporary file after you set the environment variables.

## Set your credentials as environment variables

Environment variables securely store your GX Cloud and AWS credentials.

> 1. Save your GX Cloud and AWS credentials as environment variables by entering `export ENV_VAR_NAME=env_var_value` in the terminal or adding the command to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` file. If your organization has multiple workspaces, set your workspace ID as well. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
## Get your credentials

You'll need your user access token, organization ID, and workspace ID to set your environment variables. Don't commit your access token to your version control software.

1. In GX Cloud, click **Tokens**.

2. In the **User access tokens** pane, click **Create user access token**.

3. In the **Token name** field, enter a name for the token that will help you quickly identify it.

4. Click **Create**.

5. Copy and then paste the user access token into a temporary file. The token can't be retrieved after you close the dialog.

6. Click **Close**.

7. Copy the value in the **Organization ID** field into the temporary file with your user access token. 

8. In the **Workspace ID** pane, find the relevant **Workspace name**, then copy the associated **ID** into the temporary file with your other credentials and save the file. 

GX recommends deleting the temporary file after you set the environment variables.

## Set your credentials as environment variables

Environment variables securely store your GX Cloud and AWS credentials.

1. Save your GX Cloud and AWS credentials as environment variables by entering `export ENV_VAR_NAME=env_var_value` in the terminal or adding the command to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` file. For example:
```

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - define asset" 
   ```

6. Add the Data Asset to your Data Source.

   A new Data Asset is created and added to a Data Source simultaneously. The file format that the Data Asset can read is determined by the method used when the Data Asset is added to the Data Source. To see the file formats supported by an S3 Data Source, refer to the `.add_*_asset(...)` methods in the [PandasFilesystemDatasource reference page](/reference/api/datasource/fluent/PandasFilesystemDatasource_class.mdx).

   The following example creates a Data Asset that can read `.csv` file data:

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - add asset" 
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="sample_code" label="Sample code">

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_s3.py - full code example" 
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Next steps

- [Add an Expectation](/docs/cloud/expectations/manage_expectations) 
- [Run a Validation](/docs/cloud/validations/manage_validations)

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: Something for consideration: What is the best way to display the limitations?

The list format currently used seems difficult to read. I wonder if there's a better format. Some ideas:

1. Shorter sentences to make the existing list easier to read.
2. A table format.

For the latter, a single place where someone can see capabilities supported by various sources might be a visually appealing option and reduce repetitiveness across pages.

Author: I'll file a followup issue for this. Another option could be to put a line break between the limitation and the workaround for bullet points that include a workaround. This could improve scanability e.g. 

instead of

- The Data Source configuration cannot be edited in the GX Cloud UI. Use the GX Cloud API if you need to [edit the connection](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/data_sources/manage_data_sources#edit-data-source-settings).
- Data Assets cannot be added through the GX Cloud UI. Use the GX Cloud API to [add Data Assets](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/data_assets/manage_data_assets?interface=api).

do this

- The Data Source configuration cannot be edited in the GX Cloud UI.
   Use the GX Cloud API if you need to [edit the connection](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/data_sources/manage_data_sources#edit-data-source-settings).
- Data Assets cannot be added through the GX Cloud UI.
   Use the GX Cloud API to [add Data Assets](https://deploy-preview-11375.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/data_assets/manage_data_assets?interface=api).
